Waist

The waist of the trouser should sit comfortably on your natural waist, not your hips. Jeans are often cut to sit lower on the hips with a natural “sag” effect, but not trousers. This is why men who don’t often wear trousers feel that they are sitting uncomfortably high. There should only be about one finger of room at the waistband; just a little so they are not uncomfortably cloth tight when sitting, but snug enough to keep them locked in place. A proper fitting trouser shouldn’t need a belt, and should keep your shirt from easily coming untucked- here’s another good tip for that.
Hips/Seat

There should be a few inches of allowance at the hips, since this is the primary area of motion – and thus tension – in the garment. If the hips are too small the pockets will flare and the fabric will show stress lines (or “pulling) across the front of the crotch and the back of the seat. It will also be difficult to fit your hands (or objects larger than your cellphone) in your pockets. If the hips on the trousers are too large there will be extra fabric “pooling” on the side seams and at the center back seam. In the tailor shop we used to call this a “dumpy seat”. If the pants are pleated the hips need to be cut large enough to accommodate for the depth of the pleat(s) – they should lay flat and not pull open.
Rise

The “rise” of the trouser, i.e. the distance from the top of the waistband to the “4 corners intersection” below the crotch, should follow the natural shape and size of the body. If it’s too small it will feel like you have a “wedgie” (which can happen in the front or back), it will feel uncomfortable to keep the pants on your natural waist, and the front of the trouser may be too “revealing” (especially if the hips are cut too trim as well). On the other hand, if the rise is too long, there will be an extra area of fabric hanging below the crotch and impeding your long strides, like a “drop crotch” pant would have.
Thigh

This is where a lot of guys make the mistake of going too trim, in my opinion. You should be able to sit down comfortably, without the trouser fabric struggling to keep it together. If you notice a lot of fabric stress (wrinkling/pulling) at the upper/inner thigh when you sit, your trousers may be too snug. This will greatly affect the lifespan of your trousers, especially if you’re sitting at a desk all day.
brown-wool-sportcoat-blazer-jacket